# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`asterisk`](#asterisk): Install and configure an asterisk server.
* [`asterisk::dahdi`](#asterisk--dahdi): Requirements for the asterisk dahdi module to work

#### Private Classes

* `asterisk::config`: asterisk basic configuration files.
* `asterisk::install`: Install packages that are necessary for an asterisk server.
* `asterisk::service`: Ensure the Asterisk service is running.

### Defined types

#### Public Defined types

* [`asterisk::agent`](#asterisk--agent): Configure an asterisk agent
* [`asterisk::extensions`](#asterisk--extensions): Configure a dialplan context and extensions within that context
* [`asterisk::feature`](#asterisk--feature): Configure an asterisk feature application map grouping
* [`asterisk::iax`](#asterisk--iax): Configure an IAX2 context and its options
* [`asterisk::language`](#asterisk--language): Install an asterisk language pack.
* [`asterisk::manager`](#asterisk--manager): Configure an asterisk manager
* [`asterisk::queue`](#asterisk--queue): Configure an asterisk queue
* [`asterisk::registry::iax`](#asterisk--registry--iax): Configure an IAX2 registry
* [`asterisk::registry::sip`](#asterisk--registry--sip): Configure a SIP registry
* [`asterisk::sip`](#asterisk--sip): Configure a SIP peer, a user or a template for the previous.
* [`asterisk::voicemail`](#asterisk--voicemail): Configure a voicemail

#### Private Defined types

* `asterisk::dotd::file`: Create a file inside a .d directory and set its permissions correctly.

### Data types

* [`Asterisk::Access`](#Asterisk--Access): A deny or permit line for Asterisk configuration
* [`Asterisk::ExtGlobalVars`](#Asterisk--ExtGlobalVars): A hash of global variables for the dialplan
* [`Asterisk::Featuremap`](#Asterisk--Featuremap): Options that can be set for featuremap
* [`Asterisk::Featuresgeneral`](#Asterisk--Featuresgeneral): Possible values for the `[general]` section of features.conf
* [`Asterisk::Logfile`](#Asterisk--Logfile): Options that can be set for a log file
* [`Asterisk::ManagerPerms`](#Asterisk--ManagerPerms): Possible permissions given to AMI users

## Classes

### <a name="asterisk"></a>`asterisk`

Install and configure an asterisk server.

* **TODO** make it possible to manage dialplan with the two other methods (e.g.
AEL and Lua)

* **See also**
  * https://wiki.asterisk.org/wiki/display/AST/Asterisk+Queues

#### Examples

##### simple install

```puppet
class { 'asterisk': }
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk` class:

* [`manage_service`](#-asterisk--manage_service)
* [`manage_package`](#-asterisk--manage_package)
* [`package_name`](#-asterisk--package_name)
* [`service_name`](#-asterisk--service_name)
* [`confdir`](#-asterisk--confdir)
* [`purge_confdir`](#-asterisk--purge_confdir)
* [`iax_general`](#-asterisk--iax_general)
* [`iax_contexts`](#-asterisk--iax_contexts)
* [`iax_registries`](#-asterisk--iax_registries)
* [`sip_general`](#-asterisk--sip_general)
* [`sip_peers`](#-asterisk--sip_peers)
* [`sip_registries`](#-asterisk--sip_registries)
* [`voicemail_general`](#-asterisk--voicemail_general)
* [`voicemails`](#-asterisk--voicemails)
* [`extensions_general`](#-asterisk--extensions_general)
* [`extensions_globals`](#-asterisk--extensions_globals)
* [`extension_contexts`](#-asterisk--extension_contexts)
* [`agents_global`](#-asterisk--agents_global)
* [`agents`](#-asterisk--agents)
* [`features_general`](#-asterisk--features_general)
* [`features_featuremap`](#-asterisk--features_featuremap)
* [`features_applicationmap`](#-asterisk--features_applicationmap)
* [`features`](#-asterisk--features)
* [`logger_general`](#-asterisk--logger_general)
* [`log_files`](#-asterisk--log_files)
* [`queues_general`](#-asterisk--queues_general)
* [`queues`](#-asterisk--queues)
* [`modules_autoload`](#-asterisk--modules_autoload)
* [`modules_preload`](#-asterisk--modules_preload)
* [`modules_noload`](#-asterisk--modules_noload)
* [`modules_load`](#-asterisk--modules_load)
* [`modules_global`](#-asterisk--modules_global)
* [`manager_enable`](#-asterisk--manager_enable)
* [`manager_port`](#-asterisk--manager_port)
* [`manager_bindaddr`](#-asterisk--manager_bindaddr)
* [`manager_accounts`](#-asterisk--manager_accounts)

##### <a name="-asterisk--manage_service"></a>`manage_service`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to false to avoid managing the asterisk service. By default puppet
will enable the service and ensure that it is running.

##### <a name="-asterisk--manage_package"></a>`manage_package`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to false to avoid installing the asterisk package.

##### <a name="-asterisk--package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `Variant[String, Array[String]]`

Name or array of the package(s) being installed for asterisk.

##### <a name="-asterisk--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String`

Name of the asterisk service.

##### <a name="-asterisk--confdir"></a>`confdir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Absolute path to the asterisk configuration directory.

##### <a name="-asterisk--purge_confdir"></a>`purge_confdir`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to true to enable autoremoval of configuration files that are
not managed by puppet inside of asterisk's `confdir`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--iax_general"></a>`iax_general`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for IAX2. Options are set in the file as `key =
value` in the `[general]` section of `iax.conf`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--iax_contexts"></a>`iax_contexts`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::iax`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--iax_registries"></a>`iax_registries`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate
`asterisk::registry::iax` defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip_general"></a>`sip_general`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for SIP. Options are set in the file as `key = value`
in the `[general]` section of the `sip.conf` file.

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip_peers"></a>`sip_peers`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::sip`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip_registries"></a>`sip_registries`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate
`asterisk::registry::sip` defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail_general"></a>`voicemail_general`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for voicemail. Options are set in the file as `key =
value` in the `[general]` section of the `voicemail.conf` file.

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemails"></a>`voicemails`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::voicemail`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--extensions_general"></a>`extensions_general`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for the dialplan. Options are set in the file as `key
= value` in the `[general]` section of the `extensions.conf` file.

##### <a name="-asterisk--extensions_globals"></a>`extensions_globals`

Data type: `Asterisk::ExtGlobalVars`

Hash of global variables for the dialplan, placed in the `[globals]`
section of the `extensions.conf` file.

WARNING: If you load any other extension configuration engine, such as
pbx_ael.so, your global variables may be overridden by that file. Please
take care to use only one location to set global variables, and you will
likely save yourself a ton of grief.

The variables defined here can be accessed throughout the dialplan with the
`GLOBAL()` function. Global variables can make dialplans reusable by
different servers with different use cases.

They also make dialplans easier to maintain by concentrating certain
information in one location (e.g. to avoid having to modify the same value
through many contexts and macros).

Global variables can also be used for hiding passwords from Asterisk logs,
for example for `register` lines or calls to `Dial()` where information
about the provider is combined with username and password: when using a
global variable, the variable name will be shown in logs, not the actual
password.

Variables are set in the file as `key=value`. If you pass in a Sensitive
type as the value, it will be unwrapped for outputting in the configuration
file: this can avoid showing certain sensitive information (as passwords)
in puppet logs.

##### <a name="-asterisk--extension_contexts"></a>`extension_contexts`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::extension`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--agents_global"></a>`agents_global`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for agents. Options are set in the file as `key =
value` in the `[agents]` section of the `agents.conf` file.

##### <a name="-asterisk--agents"></a>`agents`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::agent`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--features_general"></a>`features_general`

Data type: `Asterisk::FeaturesGeneral`

Global call features. Options are set in the file as `key = value` in the
`[general]` section of `features.conf`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--features_featuremap"></a>`features_featuremap`

Data type: `Asterisk::Featuremap`

Global feature maps. Options are set in the file as `key => value` in the
`[featuremap]` section of `features.conf`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--features_applicationmap"></a>`features_applicationmap`

Data type: `Hash[String,String]`

Global application feature maps. Options are set in the file as
`key => value` in the `[applicationmap]` section of `features.conf`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--features"></a>`features`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::feature`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--logger_general"></a>`logger_general`

Data type: `Hash[String,String]`

Global configurations for asterisk logging. Options are set in the file as
`key=value` in the `[general]` section of `logger.conf`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--log_files"></a>`log_files`

Data type: `Hash[String,Asterisk::Logfile]`

A hash defining log files.

Top-level keys set log file names.

Log files can use the special names `console` or `syslog` to determine
what output is sent to the asterisk CLI console and syslog, respectively.

All other top-level keys represent a file name. File names can
be either relative to the `asterisk.conf` setting `astlogdir` or an
absolute path.

Values associated to the top-level keys should be a hash that
contains at least one key, `levels`. The value for `levels` should be an
array listing logging levels for this log file.

As well as `levels`, there can be an optional key, `formatter`. Its value
should be a string containing either `default` or `json` and it defines
which format will be output to the log. If the `formatter` key is
omitted, asterisk's default log format is used.

##### <a name="-asterisk--queues_general"></a>`queues_general`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for queues. Options are set in the file as
`key => value` in the `[general]` section of the `queues.conf` file.

##### <a name="-asterisk--queues"></a>`queues`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::queue`
defined types.

##### <a name="-asterisk--modules_autoload"></a>`modules_autoload`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to false to avoid having asterisk load modules automatically on an
as-needed basis. This can be used to configure modules in a more
restrictive manner.

##### <a name="-asterisk--modules_preload"></a>`modules_preload`

Data type: `Array[String]`

List of modules that asterisk should load before asterisk core has been
initialized. This can be useful if you wish to map all module configuration
files into Realtime storage.

##### <a name="-asterisk--modules_noload"></a>`modules_noload`

Data type: `Array[String]`

List of modules that asterisk should not load. This can be useful if
`modules_autoload` is set to `true`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--modules_load"></a>`modules_load`

Data type: `Array[String]`

List of modules that asterisk should load on startup. This is useful if
you've set `modules_autoload` to `false`.

##### <a name="-asterisk--modules_global"></a>`modules_global`

Data type: `Hash`

Global configurations for modules. Options are set in the file as
`key => value` in the `[global]` section of the `modules.conf` file.

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager_enable"></a>`manager_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to false to disable asterisk manager.

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager_port"></a>`manager_port`

Data type: `Integer`

Port number on which asterisk will listen to for manager connections.
Defaults to 5038.

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager_bindaddr"></a>`manager_bindaddr`

Data type: `String`

IP address to have asterisk bind to for manager connections. Defaults to
binding to localhost.

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager_accounts"></a>`manager_accounts`

Data type: `Stdlib::CreateResources`

Hash of resource_name => params used to instantiate `asterisk::manager`
defined types.

### <a name="asterisk--dahdi"></a>`asterisk::dahdi`

DAHDI (Digium/Asterisk Hardware Device Interface) lets you connect your
Asterisk PBX to a card, Digium and some other models, that bridges calls with
the POTS.

* **TODO** This class could be merged into config.pp and used conditionally to a
boolean parameter that enables/disables (off by default) dahdi.

* **See also**
  * https://wiki.asterisk.org/wiki/display/DAHDI/DAHDI
  * https://wiki.asterisk.org/wiki/display/AST/chan_dahdi+Channel+Variables

## Defined types

### <a name="asterisk--agent"></a>`asterisk::agent`

Configure an asterisk agent

* **See also**
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-cmd-agentlogin
    * Dynamic agent login
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-cmd-addqueuemember
    * Adding agents to queues
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-cmd-removequeuemember
    * Removing agents from queues

#### Examples

##### Basic agent

```puppet
asterisk::agent { 'provocateur':
  ext        => '700',
  password   => Sensitive.new('supersecret'),
  agent_name => 'provocateur',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::agent` defined type:

* [`ext`](#-asterisk--agent--ext)
* [`password`](#-asterisk--agent--password)
* [`agent_name`](#-asterisk--agent--agent_name)
* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--agent--ensure)
* [`groups`](#-asterisk--agent--groups)

##### <a name="-asterisk--agent--ext"></a>`ext`

Data type: `String`

Extension corresponding to the agent.

##### <a name="-asterisk--agent--password"></a>`password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String]`

Login password of the agent.

##### <a name="-asterisk--agent--agent_name"></a>`agent_name`

Data type: `String`

Name by which the agent is referred to within dialplan.

##### <a name="-asterisk--agent--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Can be set to absent to remove a given agent.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--agent--groups"></a>`groups`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of groups to which the agent is associated.

Default value: `[]`

### <a name="asterisk--extensions"></a>`asterisk::extensions`

This can be used to configure your different contexts with extensions, but it
can also be used to create macros that can be called in other contexts.

* **See also**
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-config-extensionsconf/
  * http://asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/asterisk-DP-Basics.html

#### Examples

##### basic context with one extension

```puppet
asterisk::extensions { 'basic':
  content => 'exten => 666,1,Hangup()',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::extensions` defined type:

* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--extensions--ensure)
* [`source`](#-asterisk--extensions--source)
* [`content`](#-asterisk--extensions--content)

##### <a name="-asterisk--extensions--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set this to false to remove the corresponding configuration file.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--extensions--source"></a>`source`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filesource]`

Puppet file source where the contents of the file can be found.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--extensions--content"></a>`content`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Textual contents of the file. This option is mutually exclusive with
`$source`.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="asterisk--feature"></a>`asterisk::feature`

This resource will define an application map grouping. It can be used to set
dynamic features with the DYNAMIC_FEATURES variable: instead of listing all
of the application maps that need to be enabled in DYNAMIC_FEATURES, you can
use the name of a group to enable them all.

To configure global features, see the `features_general` parameter to the
main class, `asterisk`.

* **TODO** list specific options as params instead of using an options hash

* **See also**
  * http://asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/AdditionalConfig_id256654.html#AdditionalConfig_id256980
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-config-featuresconf/

#### Examples

##### feature configuration

```puppet
asterisk::feature { 'shifteight':
  options => {
    unpauseMonitor => '*1',
    pauseMonitor   => '*2',
  }
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::feature` defined type:

* [`options`](#-asterisk--feature--options)
* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--feature--ensure)

##### <a name="-asterisk--feature--options"></a>`options`

Data type: `Hash`

Hash of options with keys being option names and values their values.

##### <a name="-asterisk--feature--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set this to `absent` to remove the feature.

Default value: `file`

### <a name="asterisk--iax"></a>`asterisk::iax`

A context named after `$name` will be created. You can configure iax2 users,
peers or the special context `callnumberlimits` that lets you override limits
to call numbers per IP address range.

* **TODO** list all options as parameters instead of using textual contents

* **See also**
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-config-iaxconf/

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::iax` defined type:

* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--iax--ensure)
* [`source`](#-asterisk--iax--source)
* [`content`](#-asterisk--iax--content)

##### <a name="-asterisk--iax--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set this to `absent` to remove the configuration file.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--iax--source"></a>`source`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Filesource]`

Puppet file source where the contents of the file can be found.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--iax--content"></a>`content`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Textual contents of the file being created. This option is mutually
exclusive with `$source`. The content is placed after the name of the
context (which is `$name`) and so it should not include the context name
definition.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="asterisk--language"></a>`asterisk::language`

The name of the resource is the name of a language pack.

The language packs defined here were taken directly from packages available
on debian and so this might not work for other distros.

#### Examples

##### installing two language packs

```puppet
asterisk::language { ['de', 'es']: }
```

### <a name="asterisk--manager"></a>`asterisk::manager`

Configure an asterisk manager

* **See also**
  * http://asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/AMI-configuration.html#AMI_id265404
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-config-managerconf/

#### Examples

##### manager with default authorizations that can connect from LAN.

```puppet
asterisk::manager { 'sophie':
  secret => Sensitive.new('youllneverguesswhatitis'),
  permit => ['192.168.120.0/255.255.255.0'],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::manager` defined type:

* [`secret`](#-asterisk--manager--secret)
* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--manager--ensure)
* [`manager_name`](#-asterisk--manager--manager_name)
* [`deny`](#-asterisk--manager--deny)
* [`permit`](#-asterisk--manager--permit)
* [`read`](#-asterisk--manager--read)
* [`write`](#-asterisk--manager--write)
* [`writetimeout`](#-asterisk--manager--writetimeout)
* [`displayconnects`](#-asterisk--manager--displayconnects)
* [`eventfilter`](#-asterisk--manager--eventfilter)

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--secret"></a>`secret`

Data type: `Sensitive[String[1]]`

Authentication password for the manager.

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set to `absent` to remove the manager.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--manager_name"></a>`manager_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

Can be used to override the name of the manager. By default the
name of the manager corresponds to `$name`.

Default value: `$name`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--deny"></a>`deny`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of IP specifications that are denied access to the manager.  Denied
IPs can be overridden by `$permit`. This makes it possible to only permit
access to some IP addresses. Default value is to deny access to everybody.

Default value: `['0.0.0.0/0.0.0.0']`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--permit"></a>`permit`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of IP specifications that are permitted access to the manager.
Defaults to premitting only localhost.

Default value: `['127.0.0.1/255.255.255.255']`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--read"></a>`read`

Data type: `Array[Asterisk::ManagerPerms]`

List of authorizations given to the manager to read certain information or
configuration. Defaults to `system` and `call`.

Default value: `['system', 'call']`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--write"></a>`write`

Data type: `Array[Asterisk::ManagerPerms]`

List of authorizations given to the manager to write (change) certain
information or configuration. Defaults to `system` and `call`.

Default value: `['system', 'call']`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--writetimeout"></a>`writetimeout`

Data type: `Integer`

Timeout in milliseconds used by Asterisk when writing data to the AMI
connection for this user.

Default value: `100`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--displayconnects"></a>`displayconnects`

Data type: `Boolean`

Set this to no to avoid reporting connections to the AMI as verbose
messages printed to the Asterisk console.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-asterisk--manager--eventfilter"></a>`eventfilter`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Whitelist- or blacklist-style filtering of manager events before they are
delivered to the AMI client application. Filters are specified using a
regular expression. A specified filter is a whitelist filter unless
preceded by an exclamation point.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="asterisk--queue"></a>`asterisk::queue`

This resource presents a multitude of options, corresponding to different
options that can be configured for queues.

* **TODO** use better data types. some params should be boolean. some should have an enum.

* **See also**
  * http://www.asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/ACD_id288901.html#options_defined_queues
    * Definitions of options
  * http://www.asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/asterisk-ACD.html
  * http://www.asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/ACD_id288932.html#ACD_id36004485
    * Changing penalties dynamically

#### Examples

##### create a queue with 10 max callers and strategy `random`

```puppet
asterisk::queue { 'shortq':
  stragegy => 'random',
  maxlen   => 10,
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::queue` defined type:

* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--queue--ensure)
* [`strategy`](#-asterisk--queue--strategy)
* [`context`](#-asterisk--queue--context)
* [`defaultrule`](#-asterisk--queue--defaultrule)
* [`maxlen`](#-asterisk--queue--maxlen)
* [`musicclass`](#-asterisk--queue--musicclass)
* [`servicelevel`](#-asterisk--queue--servicelevel)
* [`members`](#-asterisk--queue--members)
* [`memberdelay`](#-asterisk--queue--memberdelay)
* [`penaltymemberslimit`](#-asterisk--queue--penaltymemberslimit)
* [`membermacro`](#-asterisk--queue--membermacro)
* [`membergosub`](#-asterisk--queue--membergosub)
* [`setinterfacevar`](#-asterisk--queue--setinterfacevar)
* [`setqueuevar`](#-asterisk--queue--setqueuevar)
* [`setqueueentryvar`](#-asterisk--queue--setqueueentryvar)
* [`weight`](#-asterisk--queue--weight)
* [`reportholdtime`](#-asterisk--queue--reportholdtime)
* [`ringinuse`](#-asterisk--queue--ringinuse)
* [`wrapuptime`](#-asterisk--queue--wrapuptime)
* [`timeout`](#-asterisk--queue--timeout)
* [`timeoutrestart`](#-asterisk--queue--timeoutrestart)
* [`timeoutpriority`](#-asterisk--queue--timeoutpriority)
* [`retry`](#-asterisk--queue--retry)
* [`autopause`](#-asterisk--queue--autopause)
* [`joinempty`](#-asterisk--queue--joinempty)
* [`leavewhenempty`](#-asterisk--queue--leavewhenempty)
* [`eventwhencalled`](#-asterisk--queue--eventwhencalled)
* [`eventmemberstatus`](#-asterisk--queue--eventmemberstatus)
* [`monitor_type`](#-asterisk--queue--monitor_type)
* [`monitor_format`](#-asterisk--queue--monitor_format)
* [`autofill`](#-asterisk--queue--autofill)
* [`announce`](#-asterisk--queue--announce)
* [`announce_frequency`](#-asterisk--queue--announce_frequency)
* [`min_announce_frequency`](#-asterisk--queue--min_announce_frequency)
* [`announce_holdtime`](#-asterisk--queue--announce_holdtime)
* [`announce_position`](#-asterisk--queue--announce_position)
* [`announce_position_limit`](#-asterisk--queue--announce_position_limit)
* [`announce_round_seconds`](#-asterisk--queue--announce_round_seconds)
* [`periodic_announce`](#-asterisk--queue--periodic_announce)
* [`periodic_announce_frequency`](#-asterisk--queue--periodic_announce_frequency)
* [`random_periodic_announce`](#-asterisk--queue--random_periodic_announce)
* [`relative_periodic_announce`](#-asterisk--queue--relative_periodic_announce)
* [`queue_youarenext`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_youarenext)
* [`queue_thereare`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_thereare)
* [`queue_callswaiting`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_callswaiting)
* [`queue_holdtime`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_holdtime)
* [`queue_minute`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_minute)
* [`queue_minutes`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_minutes)
* [`queue_seconds`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_seconds)
* [`queue_thankyou`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_thankyou)
* [`queue_reporthold`](#-asterisk--queue--queue_reporthold)

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set this to `absent` in order to remove a queue.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--strategy"></a>`strategy`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of the queue strategy that determines which member phones are ringing
when there is a call in the queue that needs answering. If this parameter
is not defined, the strategy defaults to 'ringall'.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--context"></a>`context`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of a dialplan context. Allows a caller to exit the queue by pressing a
single DTMF digit. If a context is specified and the caller enters a
number, that digit will attempt to be matched in the context specified, and
dialplan execution will continue there.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--defaultrule"></a>`defaultrule`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Associates a queue rule as defined in queuerules.conf to this queue, which
is used to dynamically change the minimum and maximum penalties, which are
then used to select an available agent.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--maxlen"></a>`maxlen`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Maximum number of allowed callers in the queue. A value of 0 allows an
unlimited number of callers in the queue. If unspecified, defaults to 0.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--musicclass"></a>`musicclass`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of a music class as defined in `musiconhold.conf` to be used for this
particular queue. You can also override this value with the
CHANNEL(musicclass) channel variable.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--servicelevel"></a>`servicelevel`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Threshold in seconds for queue waiting time. This can be then used in
statistics to determine the number of calls that have passed the
`servicelevel` threshold.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--members"></a>`members`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of static members of this queue. Each member should be specified a
`Technology/Device_ID`.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--memberdelay"></a>`memberdelay`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Optional number of seconds to add as delay before the caller and member get
connected to each other.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--penaltymemberslimit"></a>`penaltymemberslimit`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Optional lower bound to start disregarding penalty if number of members in
the queue is lower than this number.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--membermacro"></a>`membermacro`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of a macro to be executed just prior to bridging the caller and the
queue member.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--membergosub"></a>`membergosub`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set, run this gosub when connected to the queue member you can override
this gosub by setting the gosub option on the queue application

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--setinterfacevar"></a>`setinterfacevar`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, the channel variables `MEMBERINTERFACE`, `MEMBERNAME`,
`MEMBERCALLS`, `MEMBERLASTCALL`, `MEMBERPENALTY`, `MEMBERDYNAMIC` and
`MEMBERREALTIME` will be set just prior to connecting the caller with the
queue member.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--setqueuevar"></a>`setqueuevar`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, the channel variables `QUEUENAME`, `QUEUEMAX`,
`QUEUESTRATEGY`, `QUEUECALLS`, `QUEUEHOLDTIME`, `QUEUECOMPLETED`,
`QUEUEABANDONED`, `QUEUESRVLEVEL` and `QUEUESRVLEVELPERF` will be set just
prior to the call being bridged.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--setqueueentryvar"></a>`setqueueentryvar`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, the channel variables `QEHOLDTIME` and `QEORIGINALPOS`
will be set just prior to the call being bridged.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--weight"></a>`weight`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

The weight of a queue. A queue with a higher weight defined will get first
priority when members are associated with multiple queues.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--reportholdtime"></a>`reportholdtime`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, enables reporting of the caller’s hold time to the queue
member prior to bridging.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--ringinuse"></a>`ringinuse`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `no`, avoid sending calls to members whose status is `In Use`.
Only the SIP channel driver is currently able to accurately report this
status.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--wrapuptime"></a>`wrapuptime`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Number of seconds to keep a member unavailable in a queue after completing
a call.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--timeout"></a>`timeout`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Number of seconds to ring a member’s device. Also see `timeoutpriority`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--timeoutrestart"></a>`timeoutrestart`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, resets the timeout for an agent to answer if either a
`BUSY` or `CONGESTION` status is received from the channel. This can be
useful if the agent is allowed to reject or cancel a call.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--timeoutpriority"></a>`timeoutpriority`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Define which value of `timeout` takes precedence in case of a conflict. Set
to `conf` to have the value configured with `timeout` on this resource take
precedence. Defaults to `app`, which means the `timeout` value from the
`Queue()` application will take precedence.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--retry"></a>`retry`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Number of seconds to wait before attempting the next member in the queue if
the `timeout` value is exhausted while attempting to ring a member of the
queue.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--autopause"></a>`autopause`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Set this to `yes` to enable the automatic pausing of members who fail to
answer a call. A value of `all` causes this member to be paused in all
queues they are a member of.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--joinempty"></a>`joinempty`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Controls whether a caller is added to the queue when no members are
available. Comma-separated options can be included to define how this
option determines whether members are available. See reference `Definitions
of options` to see what possible values this can take and what they mean.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--leavewhenempty"></a>`leavewhenempty`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

control whether callers are kicked out of the queue when members are no
longer available to take calls. This can take values similar to
`joinempty`.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--eventwhencalled"></a>`eventwhencalled`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes` manager events `AgentCalled`, `AgentDump`, `AgentConnect`
and `AgentComplete` will be sent to the Asterisk Manager Interface (AMI).
If set to vars, all channel variables associated with the agent will also
be sent to the AMI. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--eventmemberstatus"></a>`eventmemberstatus`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, the QueueMemberStatus event will be sent to AMI. Note that
this may generate a lot of manager events.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--monitor_type"></a>`monitor_type`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `MixMonitor`, the `MixMonitor()` application will be used for
recording calls within the queue. If not specified, the `Monitor()`
application will be used instead. This setting applies specifically for
this queue and overrides the general option with the same name.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--monitor_format"></a>`monitor_format`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

File format to use when recording. If unspecified, calls will not be
recorded.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--autofill"></a>`autofill`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `no`, the queue application will attempt to deliver calls to
agents in a serial manner. This means only one call is attempted to be
distributed to agents at a time. Additional callers are not distributed to
agents until that caller is connected to an agent. If set to `yes`, callers
are distributed to available agents simultaneously. This value overrides
the value from the general section for this particular queue.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--announce"></a>`announce`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Filename of an announcement played to the agent that answered the call,
typically to let them know what queue the caller is coming from. Useful
when the agent is in multiple queues, especially when set to auto-answer
the queue.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--announce_frequency"></a>`announce_frequency`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Number of seconds to wait for before we should announce the caller’s
position and/or estimated hold time in the queue. Set this value to zero or
let the parameter unspecified to disable.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--min_announce_frequency"></a>`min_announce_frequency`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Minimum amount of time, in seconds, that must pass before we announce the
caller’s position in the queue again. This is used when the caller’s
position may change frequently, to prevent the caller hearing multiple
updates in a short period of time.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--announce_holdtime"></a>`announce_holdtime`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Set to `yes` to play the estimated hold time along with the periodic
announcements. If set to `once`, the estimated hold time will be played
only once. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--announce_position"></a>`announce_position`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Set to `yes` to have periodic announcements always mention current position
in the queue. If set to `limit` announcements will only mention the
position in the queue if it is within the limit defined by
`announce_position_limit`. If set to `more`, announcements will only
mention the position in the queue if it is beyond the number in
`announce_position_limit`. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--announce_position_limit"></a>`announce_position_limit`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Position in the queue that represents a threshold for announcements if
`announce_position` was set to `limit` or `more`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--announce_round_seconds"></a>`announce_round_seconds`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

If set to a non-zero value, announcements will mention seconds as well,
rounded to the value specified in this parameter.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--periodic_announce"></a>`periodic_announce`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of file names of periodic announcements to be played. Prompts are
played in the order they are defined. If unset, defaults to
`queue-periodic-announce`.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--periodic_announce_frequency"></a>`periodic_announce_frequency`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Time in seconds between periodic announcements to the caller.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--random_periodic_announce"></a>`random_periodic_announce`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, will play the defined periodic announcements in a random
order.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--relative_periodic_announce"></a>`relative_periodic_announce`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, the periodic_announce_frequency timer will start from when
the end of the file being played back is reached, instead of from the
beginning. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_youarenext"></a>`queue_youarenext`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt to play when caller reaches first position in queue.
If not defined, will play the default value (“You are now first in line”).
If set to an empty value, the prompt will not be played at all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_thereare"></a>`queue_thereare`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt to play in announcements when mentioning how much
people are before the caller. If not defined, will play the default value
(“There are”). If set to an empty value, the prompt will not be played at
all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_callswaiting"></a>`queue_callswaiting`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt to play in announcements after saying number of calls
before caller. If not defined, will play the default value (“calls
waiting”). If set to an empty value, the prompt will not be played at all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_holdtime"></a>`queue_holdtime`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt to play when starting to announce estimated wait time.
If not defined, will play the default value (“The current estimated hold
time is”). If set to an empty value, the prompt will not be played at all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_minute"></a>`queue_minute`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt to play after stating number of estimated minutes, if
the number is 1. If not defined, will play the default value (“minute”). If
set to an empty value, the prompt will not be played at all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_minutes"></a>`queue_minutes`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt. This is the same as `queue_minute` but for when the
number of minutes is more than 1.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_seconds"></a>`queue_seconds`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt to play after stating number of estimated seconds. If
not defined, will play the default value (“seconds”). If set to an empty
value, the prompt will not be played at all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_thankyou"></a>`queue_thankyou`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt. If not defined, will play the default value (“Thank
you for your patience”). If set to an empty value, the prompt will not be
played at all.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--queue--queue_reporthold"></a>`queue_reporthold`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Filename of a prompt. If not defined, will play the default value (“Hold
time”). If set to an empty value, the prompt will not be played at all.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="asterisk--registry--iax"></a>`asterisk::registry::iax`

This makes it possible to register to an IAX2 peer for authenticated
connections.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::registry::iax` defined type:

* [`server`](#-asterisk--registry--iax--server)
* [`user`](#-asterisk--registry--iax--user)
* [`password`](#-asterisk--registry--iax--password)
* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--registry--iax--ensure)

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--iax--server"></a>`server`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

Hostname or IP address of the server to which Asterisk should register.

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--iax--user"></a>`user`

Data type: `String[1]`

User name used for authenticating with the distant server.

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--iax--password"></a>`password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String[1]]`

Password used for authenticating.

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--iax--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set to `absent` in order to remove the registry.

Default value: `file`

### <a name="asterisk--registry--sip"></a>`asterisk::registry::sip`

This makes it possible to register to a SIP peer for authenticated
connections.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::registry::sip` defined type:

* [`server`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--server)
* [`user`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--user)
* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--ensure)
* [`password`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--password)
* [`authuser`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--authuser)
* [`port`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--port)
* [`extension`](#-asterisk--registry--sip--extension)

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--server"></a>`server`

Data type: `Stdlib::Host`

Hostname or IP address of the server to which Asterisk should register.

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--user"></a>`user`

Data type: `String[1]`

User id for the local server.

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set to `absent` in order to remove the registry.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--password"></a>`password`

Data type: `Optional[Sensitive[String[1]]]`

Optional password used for authenticating. This is required if our peer
does not match connections only on IP/port.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--authuser"></a>`authuser`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Optional user name used for authenticating with the remote server. This is
required if our peer does not match connections only on IP/port.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--port"></a>`port`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Numerical port with which a connection will be established to the remote
server.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--registry--sip--extension"></a>`extension`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Extension that is used when calls are received from the remote server. When
not set, extension will be 's'.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="asterisk--sip"></a>`asterisk::sip`

Configure a SIP peer, a user or a template for the previous.

* **TODO** use better data types. some should be boolean, some should have an enum

* **Note** It is generally recommended to avoid assigning hostname to a `sip.conf`
section like `[provider.com]`.

* **See also**
  * https://www.voip-info.org/asterisk-config-sipconf/

#### Examples

##### create sip peer of providerZ

```puppet
asterisk::sip { 'providerZ':
  account_type => 'peer',
  disallow     => ['all'],
  allow        => ['ulaw'],
  host         => 'sip-host.local',
  secret       => Sensitive.new('callthisasecret'),
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::sip` defined type:

* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--sip--ensure)
* [`template_name`](#-asterisk--sip--template_name)
* [`account_type`](#-asterisk--sip--account_type)
* [`username`](#-asterisk--sip--username)
* [`defaultuser`](#-asterisk--sip--defaultuser)
* [`secret`](#-asterisk--sip--secret)
* [`md5secret`](#-asterisk--sip--md5secret)
* [`remotesecret`](#-asterisk--sip--remotesecret)
* [`context`](#-asterisk--sip--context)
* [`canreinvite`](#-asterisk--sip--canreinvite)
* [`directmedia`](#-asterisk--sip--directmedia)
* [`directrtpsetup`](#-asterisk--sip--directrtpsetup)
* [`directmediadeny`](#-asterisk--sip--directmediadeny)
* [`directmediapermit`](#-asterisk--sip--directmediapermit)
* [`host`](#-asterisk--sip--host)
* [`insecure`](#-asterisk--sip--insecure)
* [`language`](#-asterisk--sip--language)
* [`nat`](#-asterisk--sip--nat)
* [`qualify`](#-asterisk--sip--qualify)
* [`vmexten`](#-asterisk--sip--vmexten)
* [`callerid`](#-asterisk--sip--callerid)
* [`call_limit`](#-asterisk--sip--call_limit)
* [`callgroup`](#-asterisk--sip--callgroup)
* [`mailbox`](#-asterisk--sip--mailbox)
* [`pickupgroup`](#-asterisk--sip--pickupgroup)
* [`fromdomain`](#-asterisk--sip--fromdomain)
* [`fromuser`](#-asterisk--sip--fromuser)
* [`outboundproxy`](#-asterisk--sip--outboundproxy)
* [`t38pt_udptl`](#-asterisk--sip--t38pt_udptl)
* [`disallow`](#-asterisk--sip--disallow)
* [`allow`](#-asterisk--sip--allow)
* [`dtmfmode`](#-asterisk--sip--dtmfmode)
* [`transports`](#-asterisk--sip--transports)
* [`encryption`](#-asterisk--sip--encryption)
* [`access`](#-asterisk--sip--access)
* [`trustrpid`](#-asterisk--sip--trustrpid)
* [`sendrpid`](#-asterisk--sip--sendrpid)

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set this to `absent` in order to remove SIP configuration.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--template_name"></a>`template_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Set this to `!` if you are creating a template. Set this to any name of a
template section to inherit options from it.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--account_type"></a>`account_type`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Define how calls are handled. Roughly, `peer` handles outbound and inbound
calls matches calls by ip/port. `user` handles only inbound calls and
matches calls by `authname` and `secret`. `friend` handles both inbound and
outbound calls where inbound calls are matched by `authname` and `secret`
(like a `user`) but outbound calls are matched by ip and port like a
`peer`.

Default value: `'friend'`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--username"></a>`username`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Deprecated option in asterisk. You probably want to use `defaultuser`
instead.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--defaultuser"></a>`defaultuser`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Authentication user name.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--secret"></a>`secret`

Data type: `Optional[Sensitive[String[1]]]`

Authentication secret for inbound connections.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--md5secret"></a>`md5secret`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

MD5-Hash of `<user>:==SIP_realm==:<secret>` (can be used instead of
`secret`). Default for authenticating to an Asterisk server when SIP realm
is not explicitly declared is `<user>:asterisk:<secret>`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--remotesecret"></a>`remotesecret`

Data type: `Optional[Sensitive[String[1]]]`

Authentication secret for outbound connections. If this is not set,
`$secret` is used for outbound connections.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--context"></a>`context`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of the dialplan context that is used as starting point when an inbound
call is received through this peer/user.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--canreinvite"></a>`canreinvite`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Deprecated option in asterisk: was renamed to `directmedia`. Whether or not
to issue a reinvite to the client unless really necessary. This is used to
interoperate with some (buggy) hardware that crashes if we reinvite, such
as the common Cisco ATA 186. Setting this to `nonat` will allow reinvite
when local, deny reinvite when NAT. Finally setting this to `update` will
use `UPDATE` instead of `INVITE`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--directmedia"></a>`directmedia`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

By default, Asterisk tries to re-invite media streams to an optimal path.
If there's no reason for Asterisk to stay in the media path, the media will
be redirected. This does not really work well in the case where Asterisk is
outside and the clients are on the inside of a NAT. In that case, you want
to set this parameter to `nonat`. `nonat` will allow media path redirection
(reinvite) but only when the peer where the media is being sent is known to
not be behind a NAT (as the RTP core can determine it based on the apparent
IP address the media arrives from). If you set this parameter to `update`,
Asterisk will use an `UPDATE` command instead of an `INVITE` command to
redirect media. `update` can also be combined with `nonat` with the value
`nonat,update`.

Default value: `'no'`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--directrtpsetup"></a>`directrtpsetup`

Data type: `Optional[Boolean]`

Set this to `true` to enable the new experimental direct RTP setup. This
sets up the call directly with media peer-2-peer without re-invites.  Will
not work for video and cases where the callee sends RTP payloads and fmtp
headers in the 200 OK that does not match the callers INVITE. This will
also fail if directmedia is enabled when the device is actually behind NAT.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--directmediadeny"></a>`directmediadeny`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of CIDR prefixes (e.g. of the form `prefix/number of bits for mask` --
for example `172.16.0.0/16`) that should be denied passing directmedia to
other peers. You can use this if some of your phones are on IP addresses
that can not reach each other directly. This way you can force RTP to
always flow through asterisk in such cases. See also `directmediapermit`.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--directmediapermit"></a>`directmediapermit`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of CIDR prefixes that should be allowed passing directmedia to other
peers. See `directmediadeny`.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--host"></a>`host`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Set this to `dynamic` to require the device to register itself before
authenticating. Set to a hostname or IP address to match only for this host
or IP address.

Default value: `'dynamic'`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--insecure"></a>`insecure`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `port`, allow matching of peer by IP address without matching
port number. If set to `invite`, do not require authentication of incoming
INVITEs. If set to `no`, all connections will be authenticated regardless
of port or IP address.  Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `'no'`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--language"></a>`language`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Language code to define prompts for this peer/user.

Default value: `'en'`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--nat"></a>`nat`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Use methods to bypass issues when a phone is behind a NAT. This setting is
not useful for when the asterisk server is the one behind the NAT. Set this
to `yes` to ignore the address information in the SIP and SDP headers. Set
this to `force_rport` fore RFC 3581 behavior and disable symmetric RTP
support. Set this to `comedia` to enable RFC 3581 behavior if the remote
side requests it and enables symmetric RTP support.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--qualify"></a>`qualify`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

If set to `yes`, the check if client is reachable every `qualifyfreq`
seconds (defaults to 60 seconds). If set to an integer number, corresponds
to `yes` and defines the timeout in milliseconds after a check packet is
sent: when the timeout is reached, a peer is considered offline. Valid only
with `type` set to `peer`.

Default value: `'no'`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--vmexten"></a>`vmexten`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name of dialplan extension to reach mailbox. When unspecified, defaults to
`asterisk`. Valid only with `type` set to `peer`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--callerid"></a>`callerid`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Caller ID information used when nothing else is available. When
unspecified, defaults to `asterisk`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--call_limit"></a>`call_limit`

Data type: `Optional[Integer]`

Number of simultaneous calls through this user/peer.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--callgroup"></a>`callgroup`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Call groups for calls to this device.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--mailbox"></a>`mailbox`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Voicemail extension (for message waiting indications). Not valid for `type`
set to `user`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--pickupgroup"></a>`pickupgroup`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Group that can pickup fellow workers’ calls using `*8` and the `Pickup()`
application on the `*8` extension.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--fromdomain"></a>`fromdomain`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Default `From:` domain in SIP messages when acting as a SIP UAC (client).

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--fromuser"></a>`fromuser`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

User to put in `from` instead of `$CALLERID(number)` (overrides the
callerid) when placing calls _to_ a peer (another SIP proxy). Valid only
with `type` set to `peer`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--outboundproxy"></a>`outboundproxy`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

SRV name (excluding the _sip._udp prefix), hostname, or IP address of the
outbound SIP Proxy. Valid only with `type` set to `peer`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--t38pt_udptl"></a>`t38pt_udptl`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Enable T.83 Fax support. Set to `yes` to enable T.38 with FEC error
correction. Additionally, you can add comma-separated options: `redundancy`
enables redundancy error correction. `none` disables error correction.
`maxdatagram=NN` overrides the maximum datagram value to NN bytes (useful
for some problematic cases like Cisco media gateways).

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--disallow"></a>`disallow`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of codecs to disallow for this peer/user. The list can contain `all` to
disallow all known codecs. If set to `all`, codecs that are present in the
`allow` list will override this setting, so this can be used to restrict to
a narrow number of codecs.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--allow"></a>`allow`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

List of codecs to allow for this peer/user. The list can contain `all` to
allow all known codecs. If set to `all`, codecs in `disallow` will override
this setting, so this can be used to blacklist only a narrow set of codecs.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--dtmfmode"></a>`dtmfmode`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

How the client handles DTMF signalling. Defaults to `rfc2833`. Warning:
`inband` leads to very high CPU load.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--transports"></a>`transports`

Data type: `Array[String[1]]`

Accepted transport types for this peer/user. Can be `udp`, `tcp` or both
with the order defining which is set as default (first value is default).

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--encryption"></a>`encryption`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

Set to `yes` to offer SRTP encrypted media (and only SRTP encrypted media)
on outgoing calls to a peer. Calls will fail with `HANGUPCAUSE=58` if the
peer does not support SRTP. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--access"></a>`access`

Data type: `Array[Asterisk::Access]`

List of permit/deny rules for CIDR prefixes like `prefix/mask`. Each
element of the list should be a one element hash that specifies either
'permit' or 'deny' as a key and the CIDR prefix as its value. Order
Matters! – Rules are placed in the configuration file in the same order as
elements were inserted into the list. The last matching deny/permit rule is
the one used. If no rule matches, then the connection is permitted.

Default value: `[]`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--trustrpid"></a>`trustrpid`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['yes', 'no']]`

If a Remote-Party-ID SIP header should be sent. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--sip--sendrpid"></a>`sendrpid`

Data type: `Optional[Enum['yes', 'no', 'pai', 'rpid']]`

If Remote-Party-ID SIP header should be trusted. Defaults to `no`.

Default value: `undef`

### <a name="asterisk--voicemail"></a>`asterisk::voicemail`

Configure a voicemail

#### Examples

##### voicemail with email address

```puppet
asterisk::voicemail { 'taro':
  context  => 'support2',
  password => Sensitive.new('557722981749'),
  email    => 'taro.suupaa@support.com',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `asterisk::voicemail` defined type:

* [`context`](#-asterisk--voicemail--context)
* [`password`](#-asterisk--voicemail--password)
* [`ensure`](#-asterisk--voicemail--ensure)
* [`user_name`](#-asterisk--voicemail--user_name)
* [`email`](#-asterisk--voicemail--email)
* [`pager_email`](#-asterisk--voicemail--pager_email)
* [`options`](#-asterisk--voicemail--options)

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--context"></a>`context`

Data type: `String[1]`

Name of the context in which the voicemail is assigned.

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--password"></a>`password`

Data type: `Sensitive[String[1]]`

Authentication password set for accessing the voicemail. This is usually a
series of numbers so that phones can dial the password, but it can be a
textual password as well.

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--ensure"></a>`ensure`

Data type: `Stdlib::Ensure::File::File`

Set to `absent` to remove the voicemail.

Default value: `file`

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--user_name"></a>`user_name`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Name assigned to the voicemail, usually the name of the person using it.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--email"></a>`email`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Email address to which voicemail message sounds will be sent.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--pager_email"></a>`pager_email`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Email address to which a page will be sent upon receiving a voicemail.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-asterisk--voicemail--options"></a>`options`

Data type: `Hash[String,String]`

Hash containing options that are set for the voicemail. For
example, a specific timezone can be set on individual voicemails with the
'tz' option. Options are set in the file as `key = value`.

Default value: `{}`

## Data types

### <a name="Asterisk--Access"></a>`Asterisk::Access`

A couple of configuration files let administrators configure accesses. They
are usually order-dependent so one can interleave permit and deny lines to
create complex permissions.

Alias of `Hash[Enum['permit','deny'], String[1], 1, 1]`

### <a name="Asterisk--ExtGlobalVars"></a>`Asterisk::ExtGlobalVars`

A hash of global variables for the dialplan

Alias of `Hash[String, Variant[String,Sensitive]]`

### <a name="Asterisk--Featuremap"></a>`Asterisk::Featuremap`

Those are the possible values that one could find in the `[featuremap]`
section of `features.conf`.

* **See also**
  * http://asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/AdditionalConfig_id256654.html#AdditionalConfig_id243783
  * List of featuremaps and their meangings

Alias of

```puppet
Struct[{
  Optional[blindxfer]  => String[1],
  Optional[disconnect] => String[1],
  Optional[automon]    => String[1],
  Optional[atxfer]     => String[1],
  Optional[parkcall]   => String[1],
  Optional[automixmon] => String[1],
}]
```

### <a name="Asterisk--Featuresgeneral"></a>`Asterisk::Featuresgeneral`

Possible values for the `[general]` section of features.conf

* **See also**
  * http://asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/AdditionalConfig_id256654.html#AdditionalConfig_id244340
  * List of options and their meaning

Alias of

```puppet
Struct[{
  Optional[parkext]               => String[1],
  Optional[parkpos]               => String[1],
  Optional[context]               => String[1],
  Optional[parkinghints]          => Enum['yes','no'],
  Optional[parkingtime]           => Integer,
  Optional[comebacktoorigin]      => Enum['yes','no'],
  Optional[courtesytone]          => String[1],
  Optional[parkedplay]            => Enum['callee','caller','both','no'],
  Optional[parkedcalltransfers]   => Enum['callee','caller','both','no'],
  Optional[parkedcallreparking]   => Enum['callee','caller','both','no'],
  Optional[parkedcallhangup]      => Enum['callee','caller','both','no'],
  Optional[parkedcallrecording]   => Enum['callee','caller','both','no'],
  Optional[parkeddynamic]         => Enum['yes','no'],
  Optional[adsipark]              => Enum['yes','no'],
  Optional[findslot]              => Enum['first','next'],
  Optional[parkedmusicclass]      => String[1],
  Optional[transferdigittimeout]  => Integer,
  Optional[xfersound]             => String[1],
  Optional[xferfailsound]         => String[1],
  Optional[pickupexten]           => String[1],
  Optional[pickupsound]           => String[1],
  Optional[pickupfailsound]       => String[1],
  Optional[featuredigittimeout]   => Integer,
  Optional[atxfernoanswertimeout] => Integer,
  Optional[atxferdropcall]        => Enum['yes','no'],
  Optional[atxferloopdelay]       => Integer,
  Optional[atxfercallbackretries] => Integer,
}]
```

### <a name="Asterisk--Logfile"></a>`Asterisk::Logfile`

Options that can be set for a log file

* **See also**
  * https://wiki.asterisk.org/wiki/display/AST/Logging+Configuration

Alias of

```puppet
Struct[{
  Optional[formatter] => Enum['default','json'],
  levels => Array[
            Variant[
              Enum['debug','notice','warning','error','dtmf','fax','security','verbose'],
              Pattern[/^verbose\([1-9]\d*\)$/]]
            ,1],
}]
```

### <a name="Asterisk--ManagerPerms"></a>`Asterisk::ManagerPerms`

Possible permissions given to AMI users

* **See also**
  * http://asteriskdocs.org/en/3rd_Edition/asterisk-book-html-chunk/AMI-configuration.html#AMI-readwriteopts
  * List of rights and their meaning

Alias of `Enum['all', 'system', 'call', 'log', 'verbose', 'agent', 'user', 'config', 'command', 'dtmf', 'reporting', 'cdr', 'dialplan', 'originate', 'agi', 'cc', 'aoc']`

